# videogame-database
Here I have created a functional relational database intended for my metadata schema which focuses on my personal collection of video games. 
The database consists of six entities, otherwise known as tables: (1) ratings, (2) consoles, (3) genres, (3) games, (4) playModes, (5) developers, and (6) games. These six tables function together to store and retrieve all the necessary information needed to organize my collection of video games.

Description of Entities:
I.	ratings
My first table is the ratings table. This table holds the values for the official ESRB game ratings that apply to every video game. The primary key for the table is named ratingsID, which is an int variable that auto increments. This means that the first value entered will have an ID of one and every new value entered in the table will have an ID that increments from the last known int value in ratingID. I chose this as my primary key as it was an efficient and guaranteed way to uniquely identify this table. The other columns included are ESRB_rating and createdDate. The former is a nvarchar data that allows me to store the names of each ratings. Examples of ESRB ratings would be ‘teen’ or ‘mature’. The createdDate column is a datetime datatype that stores the exact time and date for when a record in table was inserted or updated.
  
II.	consoles
The consoles table stores all the values for the different console types included in my video game collection. The primary key for this table is consoleID which is an int data type that auto increments. I chose this as my primary key as it was an efficient and guaranteed way to uniquely identify this table. The next column is consoleType. This is a nvarchar data type that allows me to store the names of each gaming console. An example of consoleName record would be ‘PlayStation4’. The last column is the createdDate column which is a datetime datatype that stores the exact time and date for when a record in table was inserted or updated.
   
III.	Genres
The genre table holds the values for all the different genres that apply to video games. This table has an extensive list of values as it must be able to handle any new genres that may show up in my collection as I acquire more games. The primary key for this table is genreID which is an int data type that auto increments. I chose this as my primary key as it was an efficient and guaranteed way to uniquely identify this table. The next column is genreType. This is a nvarchar data type that allows me to store the names of each genre. An example of a genreType record would be ‘action-adventure’. The last column is the createdDate column which is a datetime datatype that stores the exact time and date for when a record in table was inserted or updated.

IV.	playModes
	The genre table holds the values for all the different play modes that apply to video games. For example, whether a game is single player, multiplayer, etc.. The primary key for this table is playModeID which is an int data type that auto increments. I chose this as my primary key as it was an efficient and guaranteed way to uniquely identify this table. The next column is playModeType. This is a nvarchar data type that allows me to store the names of each play mode. The last column is the createdDate column which is a datetime datatype that stores the exact time and date for when a record in table was inserted or updated.
 
V.	developers
The developers table holds the values for all the developing studios that are credited with the creation of the video games in my collection. The primary key for this table is developerID which is an int data type that auto increments. I chose this as my primary key as it was an efficient and guaranteed way to uniquely identify this table. The next column is developerName. This is a nvarchar data type that allows me to store the names of each genre. An example of a developerName record would be ‘Game Freak’. The last column is the createdDate column which is a datetime datatype that stores the exact time and date for when a record in table was inserted or updated.

VI.	games
The games table is the most complex table in the relational database. This table is used to hold the values for the video games themselves. The primary key is known as gameID which is an int data type that auto increments. Then there is another nvharchar column named gameTitle. This stores the name of each video game. The game table then has an int column known as gameReleaseYear which stores the year in which a video game was first released. Next the table includes the following foreign keys: ratingId, consoleID, genreID, playmodeID, and developerID. The last column is the createdDate column which is a datetime datatype that stores the exact time and date for when a record in table was inserted or updated. 
